Here is a search tree with all of its values filled in.
As you can see,
the depth-first search algorithm would have reached node A on the 20th step,
node B on the 18th and note C on a 32nd.
Let's return to our discretized environment to see how depth-first search would perform.
Our start and goal nodes will remain the same and so will our rules for breaking ties.
However, our frontier will change.
In breadth-first search, we use the queue for
our frontier which supported expanding the oldest nodes first.
In depth-first search, we wish to expand newly visited nodes first.
To accommodate this, the data structure underlying the frontier will be
a stack and so the four nodes visible
from the start location will be added to the frontier stack.
They are ordered in a way that would have the node above expanded before the right node,
left node and node below.
After adding these nodes to the frontier,
DFS would pop the top element off the stack and explore it next.
From C6, three more nodes are visible so we add them to the top of the stack.
This process continues.
Remove the top element from the frontier,
explore it and then add any new nodes to the frontier.
As you can see here,
DFS is exploring deep on the upwards direction.
Simply because that's the way that ties are broken.
The DFS algorithm continues searching and soon enough finds itself at the goal.
Now, if we were to number the nodes in the order that they were explored,
the goal would be node number five.
Much better than breadth-first search.
Will that always be the case?
No. It's certainly not guaranteed.
Let's see what would happen if the goal node was placed here instead.
It would take DFS 30 moves to find the goal.
In comparison, BFS would have found it in 29.
Seems like neither of these algorithms are too efficient.